## Ideas
These are not law by any means. I have put this here as a place of brain dumping so we can mull over ideas. If you feel a stroke of brilliance has come over you, don't be afraid to add it here. It will be discussed and either added or rejected.

### Class Ideas
[Jacob] I am not opposed to choosing a 'class' as you create a character at the beginning of a game. However, I would like us to consider perhaps developing our skill trees to slowly turn us into what we want to be over time.  So there is a branch of the tree that takes you down the path of mage, a branch that takes you down the path of archer etc, but we are not limited to what we can learn and do by a decision we made at the very beginning of creating a character.  So we can cross train and really create a character with the skills we want. This would mean that you can choose to focus on one particular branch of the tree and unlock extremely powerfull skills as your character levels up, or you can cross train on two branches to create a hybrid character, or even cross train on all the branches to have a character who isn't a powerhouse in any area, but is extremely versatile. (of course, you can't go down the path of a fighter for 5 levels and then just unlock all the lvl 5 mage abilities, you'd have to start at the bottom of that tree and work up). So basically, instead of making an arbitrary decision at the beginning of character creation that somehow locks in your destiny and makes you a 'mage' or a 'fighter' for no particular reason, you would start out as an average Joe and begin to learn the skills and abilities of your 'class' little by little.


#### Mage Ideas
##### Cantrips
Like classic D&D wizards, cantrips are small spells usable at any point in time. Unlike D&D, this is what I imagine calling the basic at-will spells a mage archetype knows. Basically, you have a spell like fireball or magic bolt, etc, that is your basic attack costing a low amount of mana for a low amount of impact. This would parallel a shot from a bow or a swing from a sword. This can be upgradable by path type or however we choose, but must be castable at will, quickly, as a basic form of attack.

##### Spells 
Spells in this scenario are different. IMO spells should work like this: Spells come from spellbooks, obtainable items either through quest, purchase, loot, etc. In a specified non-combat zone you may "familiarize" youself with a spell, where-in you read the tome, get used to the spell and can use it by reading it as you cast. During this time you can only use the spell if it is either in your inventory or equipped or whatever. After using it so many times or doing so much damage, etc, you "memorize" the spell, wherein you no longer need the spellbook and can sell it or do whatever you want with it.

Casting spells requires concentration or channeling (reading the book) wherein you must not move, hold the button, and wait for the magic to happen. I think this fairly reflects the mage archetype that they can do incredible damage, but only if left to their space to do so. This has great implications for multiplayer, as it encourages protecting the mage, a stereotype that I believe is very true to genre. It can also have cool quest implications as you can have some sort of a magic seal on a door that needs to be undone. Required is like a total minute or two of summed channeling. Here the team must protect the mage else he get hit, distracted, killed, etc. and is unable to remove the seal from the door. Just some thoughts.
